# Enter-DC
A table-top, turn-based strategy game I made in a team of four people from September of 2014 to December of 2014.

Enter DC is a board game I created with three other people for my “War Gaming” class. The game is turn-based strategy and is designed to take multiple hours to set up and play, in the guise of more traditionally grandiose war strategy simulation games. However, unlike many games in the notoriously prodigious genre, our game was designed to be simple enough to still be accessible and fun for players not accustomed to more complex war games. Our game is set in the near future (2026) when a newly militarized European Union invades the eastern coast of the United States following a second Cold War. Our game takes place during the Battle of DC, just after US forces have been surrounded in the center of Washington DC by European troops.  The EU forces must push into the downtown area and capture the fortified White House, with the Lincoln Memorial and Capital Building serving as auxiliary US strongpoints. The game ends when the European forces have captured the White House, the American forces have held the White House for ten consecutive turns, or one side has eliminated all units of the opposing force from the board.

Working on Enter DC was very fun and fulfilling, despite being very challenging. As work on the game progressed, EnterDC became something of a passion project for me. Military history being a small hobby of mine, I quickly became the one heading up the more technical aspect of the game’s design. My duties included, but were certainly not limited to, creating a unit roster, specifying stats and values, designing core gameplay mechanics such as unit-to-unit combat, implementing terrain modifiers, and designing contextual unit abilities. When initially conceptualizing our game, we aimed to make it complex and challenging. As such, our game is very in-depth with a great deal of nuance and specific actions required. Indeed, we found that the first-time set up of our game could take as long as fourty-five minutes and in-game actions are as precise as determining what side of a vehicle has been hit with a shell. The vast majority of our design process was devoted to achieving the precise balance of simple but not simplistic and complex and extensive but not bloated.

It was this balancing act that demanded the greatest attention, time commitment, and frustration. Throughout the entire fifteen week process, our rules vacillated between being too difficult and longwinded to be fun and too simple to be satisfying; sometimes even being both at the same time. In addition, we struggled over elements like the map layout, trying to make it a true to downtown DC as possible while still keeping it playable, attempting to balance the offence, defense, and movement of fifteen unique units, and balancing the combat mechanics. Finally, we struggled with the size of our board and pieces, attempting to fit roughly eighty pieces at a time on a hex-based tile system only 17” by 22”. However, despite the numerous trials that designing a large-scale war game entailed, I thoroughly enjoyed my time working on Enter DC and would have considered continuing work on it since its completion; even possibly going into the digital realm with it. Overall, creating Enter DC was enjoyable, challenging, fulfilling, frustrating, demanding, and intensely interesting all at the same time. 
